[MUSIC PLAYING]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>LISA GARR: Do you know anyone
who is putting off their dream?
Could this person be you?
Did you know that
most people say
the reason they don't
pursue their dreams
is because of a lack
of money and time?
Well, imagine if you could have
more of what you really want.
And it doesn't have to
take more time or money.
Joining me is the founder of
the Intrigue Agency, Sam Horn.
She's here to talk
about "Someday Is
Not a Day in the Week," which
is the title of her latest book.
Sam has spoken to more
than half a million people
worldwide for such clients as
National Geographic, Boeing,
Intel, and NASA.
And she's joining us today.
Welcome.
>>SAM HORN: Thanks
so much, Lisa.
I've been looking
forward to sharing
some ideas with your viewers.
>>LISA: Yes, which I know
we'll absolutely love.
So tell me, first
of all, someday.
Why didn't you have a
someday in your life?
>>HORN: You know, it's
really interesting.
I owe this to my son
Andrew because I just
finished a very intensive
two-day consult. And he called.
And he sensed
something in my voice.
And he said, what's up?
I said, Andrew,
I'm so exhausted.
I don't even want to get
on the plane tonight.
And he said, Mom, there's
something about you
I don't understand.
He said, you're your own boss.
You have your own business.
You can do more of what
you want and you're not
taking advantage of it.
And I thought, he's right.
I was just the old Puritan
work ethic-- work, work, work,
and so forth.
And I just kept putting
off what I really
wanted to do until someday
when I had more time.
And that was never going
to happen, right, Lisa?
>>LISA: You hear about
it all the time--
people that say,
well, retirement.
I'll wait till retirement
to have my dream house.
And then at the end of
retirement, the pension's gone.
The money's gone.
It's happening to
so many people.
>>HORN: I used to
speak on cruise ships.
And I think one of the
saddest parts of that
were all the widows on board.
And see, Rene Ricard said,
tomorrow is another day,
but so was yesterday.
And as you said, so
many people put off
what they really want to
do with the expectation
that it will be there
waiting for them.
And the person will be
there waiting for them
when they're ready.
And that's not always the case.
>>LISA: So we have to seize
the moment, seize the day.
And then there's the, how can
you possibly stop working?
I mean, if you're an
independent business
owner, who's going to take over
the business while you're gone?
Who's going to answer the
phone if there's a problem?
Who's going to call in sick?
You?
You can't.
You're the business owner.
You're going to call
in sick to yourself?
It becomes a challenge with most
people in independent business
ownership entrepreneurs,
even working for a company.
>>HORN: You know, it's true.
You've probably seen the Gallup
poll that says 72% of people
are unhappy at work.
And they're unmotivated at work.
And yet they're not
doing anything about it
because they think there
aren't any options.
And that's why what we're
going to focus on today
is even if you're
taking care of parents
with dementia, even if you have
a family that you're raising,
you have kids with
special needs,
even if you're working two
jobs to pay off college debt,
there are still things you
can do right here, right now
to make your life more of
what you want it to be.
>>LISA: We need to learn that.
Absolutely.
And I was just
thinking even people
that-- because of the
job market being so tight
these days, people that do
have jobs that are employees
don't want to take that time
off necessarily because someone
is right there
knocking on the door.
So this is an opportunity
for us to expand time.
>>HORN: You know,
it's interesting
because employers
are actually watching
the statistics that show
that happy employees are
loyal employees.
And so it's a bottom-line issue
these days to reduce turnover
and to reduce the stress
that ends up in higher health
costs--
is that insisting that
people take their vacations.
Do you know 52%
of Americans don't
take their full paid vacation?
What's that about?
>>LISA: 52%.
>>HORN: 52%.
And yet now businesses are
stepping up and saying,
no, we want you to
take the weekend off.
We want you to
take that vacation,
because they know
the cost of not doing
so is undermining performance
and productivity and eventually
profits.
>>LISA: And look at Europe.
There's siestas.
There's time in the afternoon.
There's late starts to work.
There's full summers off.
>>HORN: You are
talking about what
we hope to flip in our
time here today, Lisa.
I'm asking everyone
watching this,
do you think that
fun is something
you do when your work is done?
Because see, if that is
part of your default,
then if your work is never
done, you never have fun, right?
And George Bernard
Shaw said, we do not
stop playing
because we grow old.
We grow old because
we stop playing.
So play is not the
opposite of productivity.
It's part of productivity.
>>LISA: What if you
love what you do?
I mean, you are
amazing with helping
entrepreneurial
women raise funding
for women-owned businesses.
Tell us a little bit about that.
This seems like a dream job.
>>HORN: Well, it is a dream job.
One of the things
I do is that I'm
the pitch coach for
Springboard Enterprises, which
has helped women entrepreneurs
get $8.8 billion in funding.
This is Robin Chase of
Zipcar, Gail Goodman
of Constant Contact.
And Katharine Graham said
to do what you love and feel
that it matters.
How could anything be more fun?
So see, in a way, it is fun.
I was taking it to an extreme.
And our strength
taken to an extreme
is our Achilles heel
because I felt very needed.
I was constantly busy.
I kept saying yes because
I was in biz dev mode.
And I finally had a
health wake-up call
that got my attention
and helped me realize
I needed to change things.
>>LISA: What happened?
>>HORN: Almost every
speaker I know--
I bet you've dealt
with this, Lisa.
I had walking pneumonia.
But see, I kept
soldiering on, right?
It's because we
can't take time off.
We can't let people down, right?
So for six weeks, I'm
in pretty bad health.
But I'm still jumping on planes.
I'm still doing
speaking engagements
because I just felt
it was not an option
to break a commitment.
And the doctor-- he diagnosed
the walking pneumonia.
And he said, you're lucky.
He said, I'm going
to give you a Z-Pak.
You're going to be
fine in 10 days.
But if you don't start
taking better care yourself,
your body is going
to do something more
drastic to get your attention.
And that finally did
get my attention.
>>LISA: Well, you heard him.
Sometimes we're in
such a focused mode
without any options.
You can't hear
that wake-up call.
>>HORN: I'm so glad you
said-- because in a minute,
we're going to talk about
my year by the water.
And I interviewed people
around the United States.
And see, many of them think
they don't have options.
They say, you don't
understand my life.
I'm out of the house at 6:00.
I don't get back
until 7 o'clock.
You don't understand my life.
It's like, we had
a natural disaster.
And our home's gone.
And so what we're
going to talk about
is that there really are
things that take like one hour
every two weeks that put
the light on in your eyes
and make your life more of what
you want it to be now and not
someday.
>>LISA: So what inspired
you to take this year off
by the water?
The doctor said, you
got this wake-up call.
How did you actually
unhook into it?
>>HORN: You know, I wish that
I had acted on it right away.
But there's something called
an SEE, a Significant Emotional
Event.
And even though I knew that
I had put my health at risk,
the rubber band of
routine snapped back.
And I went right back
into saying yes to clients
and filling my calendar.
And it was about a month later.
And I'm driving along Pacific
Highway near Santa Barbara.
And an idea wants to be born.
Now, I know this
sounds a little crazy.
It's just that if I learned
anything in 17 years
at the Maui Writers'
Conference, it's
ink it when you think it, right?
So I pulled over.
And this is what came out, Lisa.
You can't make this stuff up.
It was like, some people
are drawn to fire.
I am drawn to water.
After all, we're 65% water.
All of us are bodies of water.
Yet water is a Maslow's
hierarchy overlooked need.
We tend to take it for granted.
Water wants a voice.
Water needs a voice.
So it is.
I will set out on my year
by the water on October 1.
And so it is.
It's like, what?
>>LISA: Who said that?
[LAUGHTER]
>>HORN: So I had a
calling downloaded
with a name and a start date.
And that's what
finally set me off.
>>LISA: Oh, the start date.
That's important.
>>HORN: My mom said, that which
can be done at any time rarely
gets done at all.
And when I talk with people
now and they say, oh yeah,
someday I'm going to travel.
Or someday I'm going
to write a book.
Or someday I'm going to
start running, or whatever,
if you do not put a
day on the calendar,
it's not going to happen.
Those days will
just keep moving on.
And it will just fade away.
>>LISA: OK.
So I'm one of those people
with full-time work.
I have a teenager.
And my father's very
close to crossing.
So I don't see a someday.
I see micro moments.
I get moments.
But I don't know how to
take a year off, Sam.
>>HORN: See, I am so
glad you brought that up.
I'm not suggesting
people take a year off.
Most people can't do that.
Or they don't want to do that.
So I'll give you
something precise.
And when we talk about the
happiness box, which we're
going to do in a
few minutes, here's
how anyone watching can
identify one specific thing they
can do this week that
is going to compensate
for a lot of their life
that's out of control
because there's a
happiness ripple effect.
And if we do one thing that
puts the light on in our eyes,
it really can make up
for a lot of the things
that we have to do that
we don't want to do.
You want an example?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>HORN: I'm imagining many
people watching have families
that they're taking care of.
They're working full-time jobs.
As you say, they're busy.
Maybe they're commuting
two hours a day.
So my son Tom is
all of the above.
He's working long hours.
He's got a couple of kids.
And now he and his wife admitted
that the romance was going out
of their marriage a little bit.
And they admitted
that they like being
outdoors hiking and so forth.
And they didn't
have time for that.
And they admitted that they
both wanted a little more time
for themselves because
they were always working
or they're taking care--
so guess what Tom does
every Wednesday night?
He takes his two kids and the
neighbor kids out for a hike.
Now, he picks them up at 5:00.
They're back at
the house at 7:00.
It only takes two hours.
And yet all of these
things are happening.
Number one, Patty
gets a night off.
Number two, he gets outside
and does something he loves.
Number three, he's creating
memories with his kids.
And it takes two hours max.
And it's something that
he can do, once again,
that he looks at every week.
And there's one thing he can
point to that feels right
in his life.
So what do you do
every week that
feels right in your
life even with all
these responsibilities?
>>LISA: I exercise every morning
in my life, every morning.
And I need that.
I need that in my life.
Yeah.
It balances me.
>>HORN: So let's talk to
our viewers right now.
You run.
And Lisa, there are mornings
you're up late the night
before or the weather's not
so good or you're tired.
And it would be so easy for
you to make some excuse, right?
Oh, I'll run tomorrow.
I'll run when I'm not so tired.
I'll run when the sun comes out.
And yet you get up every
morning, and you run.
So what do you say
to yourself to make
this this non-negotiable
linchpin of your life?
>>LISA: Great question.
Everything begins with one
step, one step, one step.
And then you're running.
And then you're thinking.
And then you're feeling better.
And then life is balanced again.
And it takes 40 minutes.
Yeah.
>>HORN: OK.
So see, listen to the
dialogue because one
of the things we're
mentioning to viewers today
is if it's vague,
it's not visceral,
which means it's
not going to happen.
So you say to yourself,
it only takes 40 minutes.
If you say to
yourself, I always feel
so good when I'm
finished running,
it always sets up my day.
So I'm going to suggest
that-- and this little box
that we're going to work on in a
moment can help people identify
it.
And when those excuses
start coming up,
we're either going to
have excuses or action.
We're going to have
reasons or results.
If they have dialogue, something
they say to themselves that
focuses on the results
instead of the reasons,
that focuses on the actions
instead of the excuses,
it will help them take that one
step, which leads to another
and another and another.
>>LISA: Interesting.
Interesting, yeah.
So being more specific,
did you do that when
you did your year on the water?
>>HORN: Well,
here's the good news
about it-- is that I
was clear I wanted to do
the opposite of my always.
And now, see, for many of
us, it's responsibility
from the moment we get up
to the moment we go to bed.
So see, maybe the hour
we take for ourselves--
because it's not selfish to
put ourselves in our own story
for an hour every week--
maybe that is no responsibility.
Maybe that is not having
to make decisions.
Maybe that is not planning.
So what I did on my
year by the water--
instead of controlling
it and planning it,
I cooperated with what
wanted to show up.
And I partnered
with it because see,
that was the contrast
to my always,
which really made
it more fun for me
because it wasn't something
that I was accustomed to doing.
>>LISA: What do you mean, put
yourself in your own story?
>>HORN: Oh, boy.
>>LISA: What does That mean?
>>HORN: When you said at
the beginning of the show
that many people
feel they are not
doing what they want because
they don't have enough time
or money, guess what the
number-one reason is people
don't do what they want?
They feel it's selfish.
It's like, I have all these
people counting on me.
I can't just go
gallivanting off.
It's like, I would let someone
down if I said no to them,
right?
And somewhere along the
line, it was modeled for us.
It was taught to us that
we put other people first,
that the noble thing,
the right thing,
the caring, compassionate
thing is to think of others
and to take ourselves
out of our own story.
Do we have time for a
quick story about that?
>>LISA: Yes, yes.
>>HORN: I had a very good
friend who came to my home
and, when it was time for me
to leave, helped me figure out,
what am I going to give away?
What am I going to keep?
And so we're fixing breakfast.
And she looks at
my refrigerator.
And she beckons me over.
And she said, Sam, look
at the refrigerator.
She said, what's on it?
Well, there were pictures of
the boys-- boys playing Little
League, and the
boys going to prom,
and the boys going
off to Virginia Tech.
And guess what wasn't on
the refrigerator, Lisa?
>>LISA: You.
>>HORN: Pictures of me.
See, there weren't pictures
of me on book tours.
There weren't pictures
of me speaking.
And I believe that many
of us define ourselves
as a parent even when our
kids are out of the house.
>>LISA: Totally.
Completely.
>>HORN: They say, how are you?
And we start telling them
how our kids are doing.
It is not selfish to put
ourself in our own story.
It is inspiring.
>>LISA: Well, you actually
put yourself in the story.
And what did you do?
Who did you meet?
Just tell us a little bit about
that because it's really great.
>>HORN: You know, I
sailed the Chesapeake Bay
with Captain Jan.
I swam with Zack the dolphin.
I watched whales
breach off Maui.
I went to Monet's garden
and took a photography water
workshop.
And so it was
interesting, though,
because people ask
me about the places.
And guess what?
It wasn't about the places.
It was about the people.
In particular, once again--
do we have time
for another story?
>>LISA: Sure.
>>HORN: So I'm at Seacliff
Beach in Aptos, California.
And I'm working on my book.
And the sun clears.
The clouds go away.
And I think it's time
to get out for a walk.
So I'm walking along
Seacliff Beach.
And two women pop
out of their trailer.
And they said, would
you take our picture?
And I said, I will if
you tell me your story.
And so they lived in
Fresno a few hours away.
And June had looked at
her friend and said,
we've got to get away.
And she said, we can't.
It's your son's
birthday next week.
And then your
daughter graduates.
We don't have time.
She said, if we don't do it
now, we're never going to do it.
So they told their family
they'd be back on Sunday.
And they hooked
up their trailer.
And there they were
at Seacliff Beach.
And I said, what
gave you clarity
that even though you're busy,
even though you have families,
important occasions
coming up, you still
were going to do this?
And June said, I'm
an insurance agent.
She said, one of
my clients waited
until he was 70 to retire.
And then he bought that big,
old Winnebago he had always
been talking about.
And I said, bring it over to
the office so I can look at it.
And we'll add it
to your account.
She said, it was 2 o'clock.
He wasn't there.
2:15, he wasn't there.
She looked out the window.
He was there.
He was trying to park
that dog-gone Winnebago.
It took him 20
minutes to park it.
And then he had a
hard time getting out
because he doesn't
move very well.
And she said, he came in.
And he slammed the door.
And he plopped
down on the chair.
And he said, I
waited too damn long.
And she said, I promised
myself we're not
going to wait to do the things
we want to do because that's
a path to regrets.
>>LISA: That's a great story.
And you hear about
it all too often.
So that's why this is such
an important topic of,
someday is not a
day in the week.
Someday is today.
So how do we do that?
>>HORN: OK.
This is based on something
that Paulo Coelho said.
He said, one day we're
going to wake up,
and there won't be any time left
to do the things we've always
wanted to do.
However, I have a friend
who spoke at a graduation.
She gave the
commencement address.
And it was a smaller college.
And after the ceremonies, all
the grads got up on stage.
And with great
fanfare, they tore open
their graduation robes.
And they were all wearing
T-shirts that said,
I don't know, because
a lot of people--
they don't know what
they want to do, right?
It's been so long since
they've had the freedom.
They don't know.
And Dan Pink says that when
many people-- you ask them
what they want to do.
They think they have
to say something like,
feed the orphans of the world.
And it doesn't have
to be grandiose.
It doesn't have to be
a year by the water.
It can be something that's--
Serena Williams was just on
the cover of "Time" magazine.
Here she is, probably one of
the best athletes of the last 20
years.
She's got a lot of money, right?
But do you know what she
had not done for a while
because she felt guilty not
being there for her daughter?
For her, it was
getting her nails done.
It takes a half an
hour once a week.
And here she is, a famous
celebrity, all the money
in the world, and yet she
felt guilty about leaving
her daughter even for half
an hour to get the nails.
So see, it can be
something that's
just simple but meaningful
to us that makes
us feel we're putting
ourself in our story
instead of putting everyone
else first and ourselves last.
>>LISA: Well, I see
here from these pictures
we're about to show that
you went to Burning Man
with your son, which is great.
I love that.
What was the
inspiration behind that?
>>HORN: You know, my son
invited me to go to Burning Man.
And I have found that I think--
did we quote George Bernard
Shaw already, who said,
we don't stop playing
because we've become old.
We become old because
we stop playing.
And some people-- I've heard,
Sam, you're in your 60s.
You went to Burning Man?
Excuse me, but
that's party central.
>>LISA: Excuse me.
You're in your 60s?
[LAUGHTER]
Wow.
Fantastic.
>>HORN: And the thing is, it's
like, I believe you do the new.
This was an adventure.
I believe life is supposed
to be an adventure.
My son was gracious
enough to ask me
and to help make it happen.
So why would I not go?
And Lisa, do you know what I
remember about Burning Man?
>>LISA: What?
>>HORN: The gentleness of it.
I got up at dawn.
And I rode out into
the desert on my e-bike
and saw the sun rise
over the mountains.
I saw art installations
that were just
creativity personified.
I was surrounded by people
one night at sunset.
Here comes a German couple
with Cristal champagne.
Here comes a woman
quoting Jack Kerouac.
Here comes a gentleman singing.
Why wouldn't I do
something like that?
>>LISA: Right, right, right.
All right.
Let's talk about
how we can do this.
Tell us about the box.
>>HORN: OK.
There's no mystery to it.
We have the answers to the test.
So this is the happiness box.
And unless your
viewers are driving,
I hope they get out
a piece of paper
and they actually do
this box because it
takes less than two minutes.
So it's a box in four quadrants.
That upper-left box-- just
put a number one in there.
And then the upper-right
quadrant is two.
Lower left is three.
And lower right is four.
So now I'm going
to ask a question.
And I hope our viewers will
write down the first thing that
comes to mind.
Don't censor it.
Don't judge it.
If your gut tells you,
it's probably true.
So box number one, what
are you doing in your life
that you want to?
So think about your health.
What are you doing in your
life that you want to?
Going for a run?
Think about your relationships.
What are you doing
that you want to?
Tom's going on a
hike once a week.
So what are you doing in
your life that you want to?
All right.
Box number two, what are
you not doing in your life
that you want to?
Maybe you want to write a
book, and you're not doing it.
Put it down.
>>LISA: Maybe I
want to sleep more.
>>HORN: You see, that's right.
Maybe you want to get
eight hours of sleep,
and you're not doing it.
So it can be
something very simple.
I had a friend who
wanted to play the piano.
Well, she doesn't have
time to play the piano.
All right.
Box number three, what are you
doing that you don't want to?
Maybe you're working 60 hours
a week, and you don't want to.
You know what the most
frequently given answer
is in box three?
Social media.
What people are doing
that they don't want to is
they're spending all
this time scrolling.
And then there's this
unhappiness ripple
effect, where they're
scrolling and they're
comparing themselves.
And they feel more and more
bad because everyone else
is out there and having a
great time, and they're not.
So see, it actually
de-energizes you, right?
So what are you
doing you don't want?
Maybe you're fighting
with your spouse.
Now, box four-- ready?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>HORN: What are you not
doing and you don't want to?
Now, I know that's a double--
I see the English teacher in you
is going, double negative, Sam.
>>LISA: Double negative.
[LAUGHTER]
>>HORN: So see, maybe
someone used to smoke.
And they quit.
And they're not smoking anymore.
And they don't want to.
See, our clarity in box four--
those are our lessons learned.
It's like, I used to do that.
I used to commute
two hours a day.
And I don't want
to do it anymore.
I moved into the city.
Now I take the subway to work.
And it really has
improved my life.
So now you get a job offer,
but you have to commute.
And see, your clarity
about box four
prevents you from
the slippery slope
of going back into what
once made you unhappy.
>>LISA: I could absolutely
understand that.
OK.
So once we get all this
together, what does it mean?
>>HORN: OK.
Now take your pen or pencil.
Circle the answers in box one.
Circle the answers in box four.
That's what's contributing
to your quality of life.
That's what helps you have
a life that feels right.
Once again, back
to your running,
you're doing what you want.
You're running.
And it's this lead
domino in your happiness.
It's contributing.
>>LISA: Yes.
So I am.
I'm doing that.
I'm exercising every day.
And what I don't want to
do that I'm no longer doing
is driving--
two hours a day--
my daughter to school.
No longer ever happening again.
>>HORN: OK.
So see, your clarity prevents it
from sliding back in your life.
It helps you have the certainty
and clarity to say no to it,
right?
>>LISA: Right.
>>HORN: Now let's
circle the answers
in box two and box three.
And this is what is compromising
our quality of life.
This is what makes us feel
that life is dissonant or wrong
or not what we want it to be.
>>LISA: So what am I not doing?
And what do I not want to do?
>>HORN: It's, what are you
not doing that you want to?
What are you doing
that you don't want to?
Now, here's the thing.
The question is, do you
know anyone who's perfect?
>>LISA: Oh, no.
>>HORN: I don't either.
So see--
>>LISA: I try, but
it never works.
>>HORN: So see,
we're always going
to have things in box
two and three, right?
The question is, how long?
John Foster Dulles
said, the mark
of a successful organization
isn't whether or not
it has problems.
It's whether it has the
same problems last year.
See, this is where
some days lurk.
Sometimes when I interview
people, the things they're
putting in box two and three--
they haven't just been going
on for weeks or months.
They've been going on for years.
We have the answers to the
test, and yet we keep floating.
Henry Miller said, life as it
is called is for most of us
one long postponement.
>>LISA: That's true.
I mean, that's
procrastination, putting off--
I mean, could this actually
solve procrastination?
>>HORN: See-- and I know
I'm throwing quotes out.
It's just there are some
good ones out there, Lisa.
Judy Tenuta said,
my parents always
told me I wouldn't amount
to anything because I
procrastinated so much.
I told them, just you wait.
[LAUGHTER]
So yeah, see, box two or three
are what we're waiting to do,
which is why the name
of my book is "Someday
is Not a Day in the Week."
So let's be proactive.
My whole goal-- I'm a
woman on a mission--
is to help people get
crystal clear even
about one thing that would
put the light on in their eyes
because this is an
indication of doing something
that we like or love that is
the linchpin to a happier,
healthier life.
One thing a week, once again,
can compensate for the risk.
We put a date on the calendar.
And we do it, which energizes
us to do more of what we want.
And all of a sudden,
we look around.
And our life is better than it
has been in months or years.
>>LISA: So the date on
the calendar is the key.
If you keep wanting to
do things and know what
is the right thing
to do, but you
don't do it, it's because
there's not a "by when."
OK.
So my question
around that is, what
happens when you push that
"by when" or you ignore that
"by when"?
Can you redeem yourself?
>>HORN: Wow.
What a great question.
>>LISA: I do it a lot.
I put things in my calendar.
And then I don't have time.
And then I kind of
override the calendar.
>>HORN: Boy, Lisa.
I'm glad you brought that up.
Yeah, I believe in making
promises to ourselves.
In fact, I just saw something
in "The Wall Street Journal"
this morning.
LeBron James is
starting schools.
And you know what
they're called?
I make promises schools.
That's what they're called.
And every single day, they
make a promise to themselves
about what they're going to do
in school, what kind of person
they're going to be.
So see, I agree with
you that we want
to make a reasonable promise.
This isn't a pie-in-the-sky
promise that's not feasible.
And even when we say it, we
know we're not going to do it.
It's simple enough that
we promise ourselves
that when the time
comes, we will do that.
And I've got a quick story
about that if we have time.
>>LISA: Yes, yes, yes.
>>HORN: I lived in a community
with 20 pools and a lake.
And I wasn't swimming.
>>LISA: And you love water.
>>HORN: Well, I love water.
And I used to be a
competitive swimmer.
And it all changed
one day when I--
it's like, 7 o'clock
in the morning.
And I hear these cheers.
And I think it must be
a swim team at the pool.
No, they were having a
mile race, a national race,
on the lake in my backyard.
So I got up.
And I went over.
And I checked it out.
And here go the
30 and somethings.
Here go the
40-and-somethings, 50, 60,
the 80-and-over age group.
And Lisa, I'm thinking,
what is my excuse?
The 80-and-somethings
are swimming in this.
So I walked home.
I jumped online.
I googled the Waikiki
Roughwater Swim
because I used to do that
when I was in Hawaii.
And I registered on the spot
because see, once you register,
now you've made a commitment.
And you reverse.
I know I have to train a certain
amount of miles every week,
or else I'm going
to embarrass myself.
>>LISA: It's just like
getting on a flight.
You know when the fight is.
You reverse engineer
getting on that flight.
So you did that.
You reverse engineered
what you needed
to do to make that swim happen.
Did you do it?
>>HORN: I absolutely did it.
And a couple of side
stories to that--
two weeks before the race,
my son Andrew says, Mom,
I think I want to do it, too.
And I'm thinking, but
you haven't trained.
He finished before I did.
[LAUGHTER]
And my son Tom was
there with his crew.
And see, when we look
back at our life, Lisa,
do we want regrets?
Or do we want results?
And that was a result. When I
look back on my life, right now
I can remember what it was
like crossing that finish line.
And there was both of my sons
and some family friends there.
Life is not supposed
to be a burden.
It's supposed to be a blessing.
And our happiness
is in our hands.
And each of us can do
something today, a little thing
at the end of the day.
We'll look back.
And we'll think, I
made that a good day.
>>LISA: So in business, usually
there are productivity charts
and "by whens" and deadlines.
And there's a whole team of
people that make those happen.
OK.
You get that to happen in
a business environment.
What if you don't have
a team around you?
You seem like you have a great
relationship with your sons,
which is fantastic.
But what if you don't?
Do you need accountability
partners around you
in a someday situation
when we set something
that we really want to do?
Do we need help?
>>HORN: Absolutely we need help.
And I believe in communities.
And I'm going to tell
a shortened story here.
Suffice it to say,
I'm in Morro Bay.
And here comes a
replica ship in.
And I have an opportunity
to interview Ray Ashley,
the head of this replica ship.
And what he was telling me is
they made a crucial decision.
I think you know this because
you're from the San Diego area
and so forth.
They decided to build the ship
in public instead of private.
Instead of building
this ship out
in some industrial
warehouse, they
built it right by the
San Diego freeway.
And within the first week,
they had 50 volunteers.
They had neurosurgeons.
They had shipbuilders.
And over the next
two years, they
would run into an obstacle.
All the wood that they
used, one-of-a-kind wood,
rotted when they
put the epoxy on it.
One of their volunteers said,
well, I know a wood expert.
Let's talk to him.
He donated the wood they needed.
They didn't have enough
lead for the hull.
They had a get the lead out
campaign to get the community
to support him.
People are bringing in their
ball bearings and so forth.
And one of their
volunteers says, you know,
I worked for a contractor
out in the Valley.
Let's call him.
He donated 80,000
pounds of lead.
And that ship was finished
because of the community
support.
So by all means, instead
of trying to go it alone,
especially if maybe we
don't have the discipline
or we have some habits
of putting things off
and we're not good at holding
ourselves accountable,
find someone who wants
the best for you.
Find someone or a
community at work
who believes in this project,
who is also committed
to this mission, who
wants to see this
finished so that you are jumping
on other people's bandwagon
instead of having
to do it yourself.
>>LISA: OK.
So say you are accountable.
And you set out to do something.
And you are all
excited about it.
And you hit your "by when."
And there's a
problem, like the ship
builder, where somebody else got
that job you were looking for.
Things happen all the time--
all the time.
How do we be adaptable to
when our someday gets spoiled?
>>HORN: We ask for help.
You know, Lisa, my mom had
a slow-growing brain tumor
for years.
And I could put my hand
on the back of her neck
and feel the pain radiating
out from her neck.
And I would say, Mom, can
I go ahead and fix dinner?
And she would say, no, thanks.
I've got it, because she didn't
want to be a burden on us.
And the things she was
teaching us, though,
was not to ask for help
or not to accept help.
It's to be strong, to do it
yourself, to soldier through.
I love and I bless my mom.
And I think that sometimes we
got this lesson along the way.
Don't ask for help.
And don't accept it.
>>LISA: We sure did Yeah.
>>HORN: And Lisa, as you know,
if something isn't working out
the way we want it to
be, instead of soldiering
on, instead of continuing
to go solo, with grace,
ask for and accept help.
>>LISA: It is something that
we did get handed down from
generations before us--
to do it alone or do it
yourself and not ask for help.
And this is the generation
of, ask for help
because there's plenty of
people who want to help you.
And also, when you
don't ask for help,
it gets confusing to people.
And you have a great
saying in business.
Confused people don't say yes.
Explain that.
>>HORN: Well, I
had the opportunity
to help start and
run the Maui Writers'
Conference for 17 years.
And we did something
unprecedented at the time.
We gave authors from
around the world
an opportunity to jump
the chain of command.
You could pitch your
screenplay to Ron Howard.
You could pitch your novel
to the head of Doubleday.
Where else are you going
to get that opportunity?
And guess what?
These decision makers would
say, what's your book about?
Wah wah, wah wah,
wah wah, wah wah.
See, they did not know how
to distill the value of what
it was they had created
into a 60-second pitch
so people's eyebrows went up.
So that's one of
the things I help
people do with in business.
What is your dream?
What is it that you
want to set in motion?
Now how can we communicate
it so cleanly and crisply
and compellingly that
anybody gets it and wants it?
>>LISA: So you help people with
not an elevator speech, but a--
what do you call it?
>>HORN: I call it
an elevator intro,
because do you know anyone who
likes listening to a speech?
It's like Bette Midler said.
Remember the movie
"Wings" by any chance?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>HORN: Enough about me.
What do you think about me?
[LAUGHTER]
And elevator speeches are even
like, I help blank do blank.
No, it's a speech.
They're supposed to
be dialogues, right?
We're supposed to
be meeting people
in a way that actually
leads to a mutually
rewarding conversation.
So I've created a whole new
way to do elevator intros.
And we can share it with
your viewers if you'd like.
>>LISA: Yeah, absolutely.
So this applies to
anyone, by the way.
This is if you're
a parent and you're
trying to talk to your
kids about something.
If you're trying to present
an idea to a school board,
if you're anything, if you're
at work, any role in life,
this helps.
And it doesn't
matter what you do.
Yes.
Let's talk about it.
>>HORN: That's true.
And once again,
if you're a parent
and you have an
idea that you want
to bring up at the PTA
meeting, if you're involved
in your community
association and this
is the annual
association meeting
or something like that-- so
any time you have an idea
or you have something that
you want to get funded
or that you have something
you want support for
or to get approved,
you can use this idea.
So the 60-second story.
And then we're going to give
the technique that people
can actually use, OK?
>>LISA: OK.
Yes.
>>HORN: OK.
So as you mentioned, I was the
pitch coach for Springboard.
So one of my Springboard
clients came to me.
And she said, Sam, I've got good
news, and I've got bad news.
I said, what's the good news?
She said, I'm speaking in
front of a roomful of investors
at the Paley Center in New York.
I said, that's fantastic.
I said, what's the bad news?
She said, I'm going at
2:30 in the afternoon.
And I only have 10 minutes.
She said, you can't say
anything in 10 minutes.
I said, Kathleen, you
don't have 10 minutes.
You have 60 seconds.
Here's a 60-second
opening we came up with.
She not only got
millions in funding.
She was selected "Business
Week's" most promising
social entrepreneur of 2010.
Ready?
>>LISA: Wow.
Yes, yes.
That's impressive.
Yes.
>>HORN: Did you know there are
1.8 billion vaccinations given
every year?
Did you know up to
a third of those
are given with reused needles?
Did you know we're
spreading and perpetuating
the very diseases we're
trying to prevent?
Imagine if there were a
painless, one-use needle
for a fraction of
the current cost.
You don't have to imagine it.
We've created it.
And she's off and running.
Are your eyebrows up?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>HORN: Do you
want to know more?
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>HORN: That means she just
got what she cared about
in your mental door.
Now, this is Kathleen
Callender of PharmaJet.
Guess how she used to
explain what PharmaJet was.
Ready?
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>HORN: It's a medical
delivery device
for subcutaneous inoculations.
A what?
See, confused people
don't say yes.
Same entity.
However, one, you
want to know more.
The other, you're already
checking your digital device.
>>LISA: Right, right.
And you're just hearing
out of the corner
of your eye, wah wah, wah wah.
And you want to find out
more about the next speaker.
>>HORN: That's exactly right
>>LISA: So she was
successful in her--
so how do you teach people
to take what it is they do
and intrigue people no matter
if they're interested or not?
>>HORN: You know,
we connect the dots.
And so here is how people can--
instead of explaining
something, which is infobesity.
Because if you try
and explain something,
our goal is to introduce
it an intriguing way
so the eyebrows go up.
So here's another example.
And it shows people how
instead of explaining what
PharmaJet is--
subcutaneous [MUTTERING]..
So here's another example.
So there's something
called the "dolphin tank."
Now, I am a kinder, gentler
version of the "Shark Tank."
>>LISA: Oh, that's what
the dolphin tank is.
OK.
>>HORN: So I'm looking at the
business plans of the people
who are competing in this.
And here's a woman.
And she's trying to get funding
for a hook you put in your car
to put your purse on.
I'm thinking, really?
She was so smart, Lisa.
This is the Long Beach
Convention Center.
Instead of getting
up and saying,
I have an idea, a hook
you put into-- no, no.
She hauled a
full-sized car seat up
to the front of the ballroom.
She put her hands on an
imaginary driving wheel.
She said, have you ever
been driving along,
you had to stop all of a
sudden, and your purse fell off?
And your keys and your--
and you're rummaging around.
And you're trying to drive.
She said, imagine never
having to do that again.
A gentleman stood
up in the audience.
He said, I'll take two-- one for
my wife, one for my daughter.
And I thought, she went from,
really, to, I'll take two,
in 30 seconds because she
asked instead of explained.
And she put us in the scene
of the problem she solved so
that we were experiencing it.
And we socratically wanted
which she was selling.
And 30 seconds, and
we'll say, I'll take two.
>>LISA: Wow.
Was the hook on the back
over the back of the seat?
>>HORN: Actually,
it's called Cargo.
By all means, it's still
online and so forth.
And it's kind of fancy, yeah.
On the back of your
seat, it's just
kind of a fancy silver hook.
And actually, a lot
of people do use it
because we were talking
before about how
we hold ourselves accountable.
If we just say, I'm not going
to take my eyes off the road,
well, let's be a
little preventative.
Let's put our purse
and our cell phone
out of reach over there so
it's not going to happen.
So we prevent something that
could create an accident.
>>LISA: So it's behind
the passenger seat--
>>HORN: That's exactly right.
>>LISA: --which is
brilliant because there
have been a lot of thefts
recently at stoplights.
And people just reach
in and grab purses--
>>HORN: That's right.
>>LISA: --at least where I am.
>>HORN: And so for our viewers--
and if they're thinking, well, I
have an idea, don't explain it.
Either ask three
did-you-know questions--
and if you're thinking,
Sam, how do I find out
these startling statistics
that get people's eyebrows up,
you GTS that stuff.
Now, you know what GTS is?
>>LISA: No.
>>HORN: Well, for us boomers,
it's Google That Stuff.
For millennials,
fill in the blank.
I guarantee you, if
you go online right now
and put in search what
are startling statistics
about the industry that you're
in or the product that you're
creating or the issue
you're addressing,
up will come things
even you don't know.
And see, if you don't know
it and you introduce it,
that's a quick way
to get intrigued
because now people are smarter
than they were 10 seconds ago.
>>LISA: Oh.
So you can Google search
startling statistics.
>>HORN: When I do
workshops on this, Lisa,
it has never failed.
I don't care if you are doing
something around dog obedience.
I don't care if you're doing
something around home security.
I don't care.
There will be
statistics that go, wow,
I didn't know it was that bad.
Wow, I didn't know
it was that much.
I didn't know it was
increasing that fast.
And this is a shortcut
to taking someone who's
distracted and overwhelmed.
And they're thinking, wow.
Then use the word
"imagine" because imagine
this and this and this.
Now you are painting
a word picture
where people are seeing
what you're saying.
And they're thinking,
who wouldn't want that?
>>LISA: I wrote that
way in the beginning
of this intro as an honor to
you because you taught me this.
And I love this.
It's how I start a
lot of my shows--
is, did you know?
So it helps people
say, yeah, me.
Oh, raise my hand.
Pick me.
And I'm that person.
And then "imagine if," which
offers a forward-paced solution
to whatever it is that
you're talking about.
And then here's how.
And I have taken that on as
the bible for all of my shows
and how I do the intros.
>>HORN: See, Lisa, you get this.
Think about the multifaceted
benefits of this.
As you say, you just
turned a 60-second intro
into a dialogue
instead of a monologue
because by asking
instead of explaining,
you're engaging instead
of telling, right?
>>LISA: Yes.
You're enrolling.
>>HORN: And furthermore, you're
taking someone who thinks,
I may not be interested in this.
How is this relevant for me?
And you are making it pertinent.
I have a new saying.
We don't have to be perfect.
We just have to be pertinent.
>>LISA: I like it.
I like it.
OK.
So this is great if
anyone has a business.
But what happens if you're
going to a networking
event or a social
gathering or anything?
>>HORN: We've been taught to
give elevator speeches, right?
It's like when someone
says, what do you do do,
which is the ubiquitous
way of greeting people.
It's like, what do we do?
Wah wah, wah wah,
wah wah, wah wah.
So I've come up
with a different way
to introduce ourselves
that actually does create
a meaningful connection
and conversation instead
of this monologue.
So are you ready?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>HORN: OK.
So a quick story, and then
we'll do the technique.
I'm speaking at Inc. 500.
And here are the top
entrepreneurs in the country.
And so I asked Colleen,
who's entrepreneur
of the year for Oklahoma--
I said, what do you do?
Wah wah, wah wah, wah wah.
And I said, can we play?
And she said, OK.
I said, what do you do
or what do you care about
if you don't have a
business that we can see,
that we can smell, that we can
taste, or that we can touch?
Because we're not going to
try and explain electricity.
We want to talk about
something that people can see.
And she said, I run
the medical facilities
that offer MRIs and CAT scans.
I said, great.
Don't say that.
She said, don't say that?
I said, because if people
ask you, you tell them.
They go, oh.
Conversation's over.
We don't want to end
the conversation.
We want to open
So I said, turn it into
a three-part question.
Do you know anyone--
could be yourself, a
friend, or family member--
who's had an MRI or a CAT scan?
Now put a sock in it.
And the other person's going to
say, oh, yeah, my daughter hurt
her knee playing soccer.
She had an MRI.
Now you just link what you
do to what they just said.
Oh, I run the facilities
that offer MRIs
like the one your daughter had
when she hurt her knee playing
soccer.
Oh, the lights go on.
And the band play.
Now they relate to what we do.
They've had experience.
And now we're probably off on
an interesting conversation
instead of just, oh.
>>LISA: OK.
Can we play?
>>HORN: Oh, yeah, yeah.
We can play.
>>LISA: So I host shows
about conscious media.
Wah wah, wah wah.
[LAUGHTER]
How can I turn that into--
People are like, conscious what?
What is that?
>>HORN: Do you know
what Diane Keaton says?
>>LISA: What?
>>HORN: She said her
biggest lesson learned
was, it's not about you.
It never was.
So see, here's how we do
that-- is not, I do this.
Question, do you know anyone--
could be yourself, could be
a friend or a family member--
who's interested in
consciousness raising?
Now give three
specific examples,
like they'd like to know more
about how they could improve
their health, like they would
like to know more about how
they could create a
community, like they'd
like to know more about how
they can enjoy their life.
Now you stop talking
because they're either going
to go, well, that would be me.
I would love to do this, or they
would say, I hate that stuff.
But you know what?
My sister is talking
about it all the time.
So see, they are
going to give you
free information, a hook on
which to hang a conversation.
Because if they say, well,
I'm not into that stuff,
but my sister talks
about it all the time,
say, well, you know what?
And they may say,
she's especially into--
I know you have Dr. Jo on
talking about coherency and so
forth.
She's especially into how
everything's connected
and how important it is to
connect dots and so forth.
See, then you go, oh, well,
I help facilitate shows
that your sister likes
to watch about how
we can connect the dots.
Now she may go back and tell
her sister about her show.
And do you see how in 60
seconds you genuinely connected?
And what you do is meaningful
to someone they care about.
It may not be them.
>>LISA: That's
helpful because it's
better than a business card.
And it connects people
to the true meaning
of what it is that you do and
the why and the bigger why.
>>HORN: And see, we can
always tailor it, Lisa.
You're so quick on your feet.
See, you may be around people.
And you may have three recent
shows that you want to market.
So you would say, well, I
facilitate and host shows
on blank, blank, blank.
Now, if they're
interested, they're
coming up in the
next couple of weeks,
which increases the likelihood.
So we always customize to the
situation and to the person
and to our goals and the
outcomes we would like.
>>LISA: Yes.
You have a great story about
a man who was an engineer,
was he?
>>HORN: Yes.
It's a good-old techie
out of Silicon Valley.
And this was at YPO at the
YPO University in Ireland.
And he came up to me
before my session.
He said, Sam, I'm going to
confess something to you.
I don't tell many people.
He said, I'm an introvert.
He said, I run a company.
I'm actually kind
of shy, though.
I fly around the world
to these conferences.
And then I hang out in my hotel
room because I hate hall talk.
You know, chit
chat-- not my thing.
And he says, I can never
explain what I do in a way
that people get it.
It's so awkward.
I just avoid it.
I said, do you want to play?
>>LISA: Yeah.
Do you want to play?
>>HORN: And I said, OK.
So don't tell me what you do.
What are the results of
what you do that we can see
or smell or taste or touch?
Lisa, he's saying something
about computers, credit cards,
financial software.
Finally my light bulb goes off.
I said, do you make the
software that makes it safe
for us to buy things online?
He said, yes.
[LAUGHTER]
I said, now, don't tell
people that because they're
going to go, oh.
Turn it into a three-part
question and stack the deck.
I said, what are the three most
successful online retailers
right now?
It was Travelocity,
eBay, and Amazon.
So do you know anyone--
it could be yourself,
friend, or family
member-- who shops
online like on Travelocity,
eBay, or Amazon?
See how you just up the ante?
And the chances that they're
going to know someone who has
exp--
>>LISA: Or raise
their hand, yes.
>>HORN: And said, nah.
And even if someone says,
nah, I'm never online,
but my wife loves Amazon
and the free shipping,
well, I make the software that
makes it safe for your wife
to buy things on Amazon.
>>LISA: And then he
goes home and says, hey.
Yes.
>>HORN: Guess what though?
He gets misty eyed.
And I said, are you OK?
He says, yeah.
I just can't wait to get
home from this conference.
I said, why?
He said, I can finally
explain to my 8-year-old son
what it is I do in a way
he can understand it.
And you know, Lisa, that's
what we're talking about.
It's like, we want to connect
with people in meaningful ways,
not jargon, not scripted
elevator speeches
that we give to people.
They might as well not
even be in the room.
Our whole goal, whether
it's the happiness
box, whether it's figuring out
what we want to do someday,
is to connect with our
life, is to connect
what matters, what really
will matter in the long run,
to connect with our loved
ones instead of taking them
for granted.
No.
It's like, get clear about it.
And then do something about
it instead of waiting.
>>LISA: And in
today's day and age,
where things move so fast and
you have a second on Facebook
to talk to someone or
Instagram or some way to make
a connection, you want to cut
out the noise of what people
aren't going to look at anyway--
the marketing
jargon and so forth.
I think you had an example
of a best-selling author that
did that.
>>HORN: That's right.
Well, Elmore Leonard
was asked why
people loved his book so much.
And he said, I try to leave
out the parts people skip.
>>LISA: Yeah.
So speaking of authors,
I heard a great--
on your great TED Talks.
And we haven't
gotten to the fact
that you coach people on how
to deliver the home run TED
Talk because you're so good
with framing people's stories
and helping them
really from their heart
connect people
with what they do.
That's your genius.
But there was a great story
you told me about a woman
at the Maui Writers' conference
who hid in her hotel room.
>>HORN: That's right.
She had come out of
her pitch session
with Bob Loomis, who was the
senior VP at Random House.
His clients are Maya Angelou.
And she came out with
tears in her eyes.
I said, are you OK?
She said, I'm not OK.
She said, I just saw my
dream go down the drain.
And she had spent three
years on her manuscript.
And he said, what's it about?
And she said, her
mind went blank.
She had just been so
close to it for so long.
She couldn't explain it in a
way that would get his interest.
And she thought she had blown
it-- three years of work
down the drain.
And I ran into her the next day.
And I said, did you go to
the reception last night?
Because there's
more agents there.
There's other publishers there.
And she said, no, I hid
out in my hotel room.
And she had been so intimidated
by the thought of perhaps not
being able to
explain what she did
in a way that was intriguing,
she just didn't go.
And what I have learned is that
we don't have to know to go,
is that we wait for perfection.
We wait until-- and so
many opportunities go by.
And if we just
set it in motion--
I have a great story about
that if we have time.
>>LISA: Yes, yes.
>>HORN: You and I have
talked about Mickey Agrawal.
And Mickey was an investment
banker in New York
and started having stomach
problems because she ate out
all the time.
And most restaurant
food is bad for you.
So she GTSed it, Lisa,
Googled That Stuff.
>>LISA: Googled That Stuff, OK.
>>HORN: And she
found out that pizza
is 10% of all food
sales in New York.
But pizza is bad for you.
But what if it
wasn't bad for you?
And that's at the
core of "someday."
What if I didn't have to do it
the way I had always done it?
What if I did go somewhere
where I didn't know anyone,
but I gave it a chance?
What if I did decide to, right?
So she googled it.
And she thought,
I'm going to start
a farm-to-table
restaurant called
Wild that serves healthy pizza.
Now, had she ever run
a restaurant before?
No.
Did she have a culinary degree?
However, part of this is
identifying something that's
wrong that we want to fix.
And we think, somebody should
do something about that,
and realizing we're as much
as somebody as anybody.
We can do something like that.
And people can't
jump on our bandwagon
if it's parked in the garage.
>>LISA: Yes, great point.
And then she went on to become
entrepreneur of the year,
didn't she?
>>HORN: She's "Time" magazine--
one of the top 100 innovators.
She founded Thinx.
She founded Tushy.
She is on the board of
Conscious Capitalism.
And now, what if
she thought, well, I
can't do this because
I've never done it before?
No.
She said, I'm going
to set it in motion.
I'm going to research it.
I'm going to ask for help.
I'm going to iterate
along the way.
And when we set
things in motion,
I believe the universe says,
well, you're doing your half.
All righty then.
Let's play.
We'll do our half.
>>LISA: I'll do my half, yes.
And also, she
didn't think, well,
somebody else can do that.
How many people had a great
idea, a great invention,
where they had a need?
There's a woman that I know
that has a butter dish.
And she was so tired of
putting the butter dish back
on the top of it and getting
the butter everywhere
and it melting all over.
She found a little flip door.
And she has-- in
stores everywhere
and been in magazines
just because she
created this brand-new
idea for a butter dish.
>>HORN: I have a book
called "Ideapreneur."
And I've interviewed
people around the world.
And so many people have
regrets because they
can tell you exactly--
I thought, why should I
be pulling my suitcase
through the airport?
Why don't I put
little wheels on it?
Nah, somebody has
probably already done it.
And so when I was swimming,
I lived in an apartment
at one point.
And it's like, stroke, stroke,
turn, stroke, stroke, turn.
And I thought, huh, what if
there was like a swim leash?
And what if I could tie myself
off to the end of the pool
so I didn't have to
swim in the ocean
but I don't have to
stroke, stroke, turn?
And you know what?
I went to an
invention convention.
And at that point,
I was going to.
And I never did it.
About a year later,
I'm flying United.
And I open up-- ah,
there's a swim leash.
And I will always regret
that I didn't go ahead and do
that because it was a brilliant
idea that turns a backyard
pool or an apartment pool into a
great workout where you're just
swimming away, having
the time of your life
without stroke, stroke,
turn, stroke, stroke, turn.
>>LISA: You must have
the time of your life,
speaking of which, helping
people learn and talk
about what it is that they do.
I just have to ask you,
though, in your words, what
is your biggest why as to
why you do what you do?
>>HORN: Hmm.
Hmm.
You know, Lisa, I
was very fortunate.
In college, I had a
college professor.
And instead of just
studying Socrates and Plato
and Aristotle, he had us come
up with our mission statement,
our philosophy of life.
And I came up with something.
And that is that
my mission on Earth
is to make a positive
difference for as many people
as possible while maintaining
a happy, healthy life
with friends and family.
And I came up with that
sentence decades ago.
I haven't changed it.
And that is the core of why
I'm here and what I hope to do.
And as long as I'm in
alignment with that--
Dale Carnegie said, we should
live in day-tight compartments.
I think we should live in
day-right compartments.
And if I am making a
difference for people
and I'm outside walking
and enjoying life--
>>LISA: And the water.
>>HORN: That's right.
Then my life is right.
And once again, any one of us
can do this on a daily basis
if we get clear about
those linchpins.
Yours is running.
Mine's walking, being
out in nature, staying
connected with the people I
love, making a difference.
And if we're doing that,
the rest is a bonus.
>>LISA: Yes.
Absolutely.
So no matter what you do,
you can turn this around
into something that engages
people and interests them
and enrolls them
in whatever it is
that you're passionate about.
>>HORN: I really believe that.
You know, Michael
Altshuler said,
the bad news is, time flies.
The good news is,
we're the pilot.
>>LISA: Yes, right.
And your answered a time at
the beginning of the show.
Well, thank you so
much for showing
us so much on how we can make
someday every day of the week,
really, if you think about it.
Thank you so much, Sam.
>>HORN: You're welcome, Lisa.
>>LISA: And thank you so
much for watching this show.
And if you'd like to watch
any other inspirational shows,
go to "Inspirations" on Gaia.
I'm Lisa Garr.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay aware.
[THEME MUSIC]